f employment. The simple
truth seems to be that his arrogance and conceit and importunity made
him unpopular, and that his proverbial ill luck was set off against his
ability.

Although he was fully charged with the piety of his age, and kept
in mind his humble dependence on divine grace when he was plundering
Venetian argosies or lying to the Indians, or fighting anywhere simply
for excitement or booty, and was always as devout as a modern Sicilian
or Greek robber; he had a humorous appreciation of the value of the
religions current in his day. He saw through the hypocrisy of the London
Company, “making religion their color, when all their aim was nothing
but present profit.” There was great talk about Christianizing
the Indians; but the colonists in Virginia taught them chiefly the
corruptions of civilized life, and those who were despatched to England
soon became debauched by London vices. “Much they blamed us [he writes]
for not converting the Salvages, when those they sent us were little
better, if not worse, nor did they all convert any of those we sent them
to England for that purpose.”

Captain John Smith died unmarried, nor is there any record that he ever
had wife or children. This disposes of the claim of subsequent John
Smiths to be descended from him. He was the last of that race;
the others are imitations. He was wedded to glory. That he was not
insensible to the charms of female beauty, and to the heavenly pity
in their hearts, which is their chief grace, his writings abundantly
evince; but to taste the pleasures of dangerous adventure, to learn war
and to pick up his living with his sword, and to fight wherever piety
showed recompense would follow, was the passion of his youth, while his
manhood was given to the arduous ambition of enlarging the domains
of England and enrolling his name among those heroes who make an
ineffaceable impression upon their age. There was no time in his life
when he had leisure to marry, or when it would have been consistent with
his schemes to have tied himself to a home.

As a writer he was wholly untrained, but with all his introversions and
obscurities he is the most readable chronicler of his time, the most
amusing and as untrustworthy as any. He is influenced by his prejudices,
though not so much by them as by his imagination and vanity. He had a
habit of accurate observation, as his maps show, and this trait gives
to his statements and descriptions, when his own reputation is not
concerned, a value beyond that of those of most contemporary travelers.
And there is another thing to be said about his writings. They are
uncommonly clean for his day. Only here and there is coarseness
encountered. In an age when nastiness was written as well as spoken, and
when most travelers felt called upon to satisfy a curiosity for prurient
observations, Smith preserved a tone quite remarkable for general
purity.

Captain Smith is in some respects a very good type of the restless
adventurers of his age; but he had a little more pseudo-chivalry at one
end of his life, and a little more piety at the other, than the rest.
There is a decidedly heroic element in his courage, hardihood, and
enthusiasm, softened to the modern observer's comprehension by the
humorous contrast between his achievements and his estimate of them.
Between his actual deeds as he relates them, and his noble sentiments,
there is also sometimes a contrast pleasing to the worldly mind. He is
just one of those characters who would be more agreeable on the stage
than in private life. His extraordinary conceit would be entertaining if
one did not see too much of him. Although he was such a romancer that we
can accept few of his unsupported statements about himself, there was,
nevertheless, a certain verity in his character which showed something
more than loyalty to his own fortune; he could be faithful to an
ambition for the public good. Those who knew him best must have found
in him very likable qualities, and acknowledged the generosities of his
nature, while they were amused at his humorous spleen and his serious
contemplation of his own greatness. There is a kind of simplicity in
his self-appreciation that wins one, and it is impossible for the candid
student of his career not to feel kindly towards the “sometime Governor
of Virginia and Admiral of 