to see some courtlike pastime, the Lord Tubashaw did defy any
captaine that had the command of a company, who durst combat with him
for his head.”

This handsome offer to swap heads was accepted; lots were cast for the
honor of meeting the lord, and, fortunately for us, the choice fell
upon an ardent fighter of twenty-three years, named Captain John Smith.
Nothing was wanting to give dignity to the spectacle. Truce was made;
the ramparts of this fortress-city in the mountains (which we cannot
find on the map) were “all beset with faire Dames and men in Armes”;
the Christians were drawn up in battle array; and upon the theatre thus
prepared the Turkish Bashaw, armed and mounted, entered with a flourish
of hautboys; on his shoulders were fixed a pair of great wings,
compacted of eagles' feathers within a ridge of silver richly garnished
with gold and precious stones; before him was a janissary bearing his
lance, and a janissary walked at each side leading his steed.

This gorgeous being Smith did not keep long waiting. Riding into the
field with a flourish of trumpets, and only a simple page to bear his
lance, Smith favored the Bashaw with a courteous salute, took position,
charged at the signal, and before the Bashaw could say “Jack Robinson,”
 thrust his lance through the sight of his beaver, face, head and all,
threw him dead to the ground, alighted, unbraced his helmet, and cut off
his head. The whole affair was over so suddenly that as a pastime for
ladies it must have been disappointing. The Turks came out and took
the headless trunk, and Smith, according to the terms of the challenge,
appropriated the head and presented it to General Moyses.

This ceremonious but still hasty procedure excited the rage of one
Grualgo, the friend of the Bashaw, who sent a particular challenge to
Smith to regain his friend's head or lose his own, together with
his horse and armor. Our hero varied the combat this time. The two
combatants shivered lances and then took to pistols; Smith received a
mark upon the “placard,” but so wounded the Turk in his left arm that he
was unable to rule his horse. Smith then unhorsed him, cut off his head,
took possession of head, horse, and armor, but returned the rich apparel
and the body to his friends in the most gentlemanly manner.

Captain Smith was perhaps too serious a knight to see the humor of
these encounters, but he does not lack humor in describing them, and
he adopted easily the witty courtesies of the code he was illustrating.
After he had gathered two heads, and the siege still dragged, he became
in turn the challenger, in phrase as courteously and grimly facetious as
was permissible, thus:

“To delude time, Smith, with so many incontradictible perswading
reasons, obtained leave that the Ladies might know he was not so much
enamored of their servants' heads, but if any Turke of their ranke would
come to the place of combat to redeem them, should have also his, upon
like conditions, if he could winne it.”

This considerate invitation was accepted by a person whom Smith, with
his usual contempt for names, calls “Bonny Mulgro.” It seems difficult
to immortalize such an appellation, and it is a pity that we have not
the real one of the third Turk whom Smith honored by killing. But
Bonny Mulgro, as we must call the worthiest foe that Smith's prowess
encountered, appeared upon the field. Smith understands working up
a narration, and makes this combat long and doubtful. The challenged
party, who had the choice of weapons, had marked the destructiveness of
his opponent's lance, and elected, therefore, to fight with pistols and
battle-axes. The pistols proved harmless, and then the battle-axes came
in play, whose piercing bills made sometime the one, sometime the other,
to have scarce sense to keep their saddles. Smith received such a blow
that he lost his battle-axe, whereat the Turks on the ramparts set up
a great shout. “The Turk prosecuted his advantage to the utmost of
his power; yet the other, what by the readiness of his horse, and
his judgment and dexterity in such a business, beyond all men's
expectations, by God's assistance, not only avoided the Turke's
violence, but having drawn his Faulchion, pierced the Turke so under the
Culets throrow backe and body, that although he alighted from his horse,
he stood not lon