imself up to those pleasures which a man rescued from the hardships of
captivity in Tartaria might be expected to seek. Mr. Stith says that
it was the testimony of his fellow soldiers and adventurers that “they
never knew a soldier, before him, so free from those military vices of
wine, tobacco, debts, dice, and oathes.”

But of one thing we may be certain: he was seeking adventure according
to his nature, and eager for any heroic employment; and it goes without
saying that he entered into the great excitement of the day--adventure
in America. Elizabeth was dead. James had just come to the throne, and
Raleigh, to whom Elizabeth had granted an extensive patent of Virginia,
was in the Tower. The attempts to make any permanent lodgment in the
countries of Virginia had failed. But at the date of Smith's advent
Captain Bartholomew Gosnold had returned from a voyage undertaken in
1602 under the patronage of the Earl of Southampton, and announced that
he had discovered a direct passage westward to the new continent, all
the former voyagers having gone by the way of the West Indies. The
effect of this announcement in London, accompanied as it was with
Gosnold's report of the fruitfulness of the coast of New England which
he explored, was something like that made upon New York by the discovery
of gold in California in 1849. The route by the West Indies, with its
incidents of disease and delay, was now replaced by the direct course
opened by Gosnold, and the London Exchange, which has always been quick
to scent any profit in trade, shared the excitement of the distinguished
soldiers and sailors who were ready to embrace any chance of adventure
that offered.

It is said that Captain Gosnold spent several years in vain, after
his return, in soliciting his friends and acquaintances to join him
in settling this fertile land he had explored; and that at length he
prevailed upon Captain John Smith, Mr. Edward Maria Wingfield, the Rev.
Mr. Robert Hunt, and others, to join him. This is the first appearance
of the name of Captain John Smith in connection with Virginia. Probably
his life in London had been as idle as unprofitable, and his purse
needed replenishing. Here was a way open to the most honorable,
exciting, and profitable employment. That its mere profit would have
attracted him we do not believe; but its danger, uncertainty, and chance
of distinction would irresistibly appeal to him. The distinct object of
the projectors was to establish a colony in Virginia. This proved too
great an undertaking for private persons. After many vain projects the
scheme was commended to several of the nobility, gentry, and merchants,
who came into it heartily, and the memorable expedition of 1606 was
organized.

The patent under which this colonization was undertaken was obtained
from King James by the solicitation of Richard Hakluyt and others.
Smith's name does not appear in it, nor does that of Gosnold nor of
Captain Newport. Richard Hakluyt, then clerk prebendary of Westminster,
had from the first taken great interest in the project. He was chaplain
of the English colony in Paris when Sir Francis Drake was fitting out
his expedition to America, and was eager to further it. By his diligent
study he became the best English geographer of his time; he was the
historiographer of the East India Company, and the best informed man in
England concerning the races, climates, and productions of all parts of
the globe. It was at Hakluyt's suggestion that two vessels were sent out
from Plymouth in 1603 to verify Gosnold's report of his new short route.
A further verification of the feasibility of this route was made
by Captain George Weymouth, who was sent out in 1605 by the Earl of
Southampton.

The letters-patent of King James, dated April 10, 1606, licensed the
planting of two colonies in the territories of America commonly called
Virginia. The corporators named in the first colony were Sir Thos.
Gates, Sir George Somers, knights, and Richard Hakluyt and Edward Maria
Wingfield, adventurers, of the city of London. They were permitted
to settle anywhere in territory between the 34th and 41st degrees of
latitude.

The corporators named in the second colony were Thomas Hankam, Raleigh
Gilbert, William Parker, and George Popham, representing Bristol,
Exeter, and Plymouth, and the west 