ahominy is more fruitful in its consequences
than Jason's voyage to Colchis; as it exhibits the energy, daring,
invention, and various accomplishments of Captain Smith, as warrior,
negotiator, poet, and narrator; as it describes Smith's first and only
captivity among the Indians; and as it was during this absence of four
weeks from Jamestown, if ever, that Pocahontas interposed to prevent the
beating out of Smith's brains with a club, I shall insert the account
of it in full, both Smith's own varying relations of it, and such
contemporary notices of it as now come to light. It is necessary here to
present several accounts, just as they stand, and in the order in which
they were written, that the reader may see for himself how the story of
Pocahontas grew to its final proportions. The real life of Pocahontas
will form the subject of another chapter.

The first of these accounts is taken from “The True Relation,” written
by Captain John Smith, composed in Virginia, the earliest published work
relating to the James River Colony. It covers a period of a little more
than thirteen months, from the arrival at Cape Henry on April 26,
1607, to the return of Captain Nelson in the Phoenix, June 2, 1608.
The manuscript was probably taken home by Captain Nelson, and it was
published in London in 1608. Whether it was intended for publication
is doubtful; but at that time all news of the venture in Virginia was
eagerly sought, and a narrative of this importance would naturally
speedily get into print.

In the several copies of it extant there are variations in the
titlepage, which was changed while the edition was being printed. In
some the name of Thomas Watson is given as the author, in others “A
Gentleman of the Colony,” and an apology appears signed “T. H.,” for the
want of knowledge or inadvertence of attributing it to any one except
Captain Smith.

There is no doubt that Smith was its author. He was still in Virginia
when it was printed, and the printers made sad work of parts of his
manuscript. The question has been raised, in view of the entire omission
of the name of Pocahontas in connection with this voyage and captivity,
whether the manuscript was not cut by those who published it. The reason
given for excision is that the promoters of the Virginia scheme were
anxious that nothing should appear to discourage capitalists, or to
deter emigrants, and that this story of the hostility and cruelty of
Powhatan, only averted by the tender mercy of his daughter, would have
an unfortunate effect. The answer to this is that the hostility was
exhibited by the captivity and the intimation that Smith was being
fatted to be eaten, and this was permitted to stand. It is wholly
improbable that an incident so romantic, so appealing to the
imagination, in an age when wonder-tales were eagerly welcomed, and
which exhibited such tender pity in the breast of a savage maiden, and
such paternal clemency in a savage chief, would have been omitted. It
was calculated to lend a lively interest to the narration, and would be
invaluable as an advertisement of the adventure.


[For a full bibliographical discussion of this point the reader is
referred to the reprint of “The True Relation,” by Charles Deane,
Esq., Boston, 1864, the preface and notes to which are a masterpiece of
critical analysis.]


That some portions of “The True Relation” were omitted is possible.
There is internal evidence of this in the abrupt manner in which it
opens, and in the absence of allusions to the discords during the voyage
and on the arrival. Captain Smith was not the man to pass over such
questions in silence, as his subsequent caustic letter sent home to the
Governor and Council of Virginia shows. And it is probable enough that
the London promoters would cut out from the “Relation” complaints
and evidence of the seditions and helpless state of the colony. The
narration of the captivity is consistent as it stands, and wholly
inconsistent with the Pocahontas episode.

We extract from the narrative after Smith's departure from Apocant, the
highest town inhabited, between thirty and forty miles up the river, and
below Orapaks, one of Powhatan's seats, which also appears on his map.
He writes:

“Ten miles higher I discovered with the barge; in the midway a great
tree hindered my passage, which I cu