rmed, and the Southerly Countries
also, as the rest, that reported us to be within a day and a halfe of
Mangoge, two dayes of Chawwonock, 6 from Roonock, to the South part of
the backe sea: he described a countrie called Anone, where they
have abundance of Brasse, and houses walled as ours. I requited his
discourse, seeing what pride he had in his great and spacious Dominions,
seeing that all hee knewe were under his Territories.

“In describing to him the territories of Europe which was subject to our
great King whose subject I was, the innumerable multitude of his ships,
I gave him to understand the noyse of Trumpets and terrible manner of
fighting were under Captain Newport my father, whom I intituled the
Meworames which they call King of all the waters, at his greatnesse bee
admired and not a little feared; he desired mee to forsake Paspahegh,
and to live with him upon his River, a countrie called Capa Howasicke;
he promised to give me corne, venison, or what I wanted to feede us,
Hatchets and Copper wee should make him, and none should disturbe
us. This request I promised to performe: and thus having with all the
kindnes hee could devise, sought to content me, he sent me home with 4
men, one that usually carried my Gonne and Knapsacke after me, two other
loded with bread, and one to accompanie me.”

The next extract in regard to this voyage is from President Wingfield's
“Discourse of Virginia,” which appears partly in the form of a diary,
but was probably drawn up or at least finished shortly after Wingfield's
return to London in May, 1608. He was in Jamestown when Smith returned
from his captivity, and would be likely to allude to the romantic story
of Pocahontas if Smith had told it on his escape. We quote:

“Decem.--The 10th of December, Mr. Smyth went up the ryver of the
Chechohomynies to trade for corne; he was desirous to see the heade of
that river; and, when it was not passible with the shallop, he hired a
cannow and an Indian to carry him up further. The river the higher
grew worse and worse. Then hee went on shoare with his guide, and left
Robinson and Emmery, and twoe of our Men, in the cannow; which were
presently slayne by the Indians, Pamaonke's men, and hee himself taken
prysoner, and, by the means of his guide, his lief was saved; and
Pamaonche, haveing him prisoner, carryed him to his neybors wyroances,
to see if any of them knew him for one of those which had bene, some two
or three eeres before us, in a river amongst them Northward, and taken
awaie some Indians from them by force. At last he brought him to the
great Powaton (of whome before wee had no knowledg), who sent him home
to our towne the 8th of January.”


The next contemporary document to which we have occasion to refer is
Smith's Letter to the Treasurer and Council of Virginia in England,
written in Virginia after the arrival of Newport there in September,
1608, and probably sent home by him near the close of that year. In this
there is no occasion for a reference to Powhatan or his daughter, but he
says in it: “I have sent you this Mappe of the Bay and Rivers, with an
annexed Relation of the Countryes and Nations that inhabit them as
you may see at large.” This is doubtless the “Map of Virginia,” with
a description of the country, published some two or three years after
Smith's return to England, at Oxford, 1612. It is a description of the
country and people, and contains little narrative. But with this was
published, as an appendix, an account of the proceedings of the Virginia
colonists from 1606 to 1612, taken out of the writings of Thomas Studley
and several others who had been residents in Virginia. These several
discourses were carefully edited by William Symonds, a doctor of
divinity and a man of learning and repute, evidently at the request of
Smith. To the end of the volume Dr. Symonds appends a note addressed
to Smith, saying: “I return you the fruit of my labors, as Mr. Cranshaw
requested me, which I bestowed in reading the discourses and hearing the
relations of such as have walked and observed the land of Virginia with
you.” These narratives by Smith's companions, which he made a part of
his Oxford book, and which passed under his eye and had his approval,
are uniformly not only friendly to him, but eulogistic of him, and
probably omit no incident kno