 making up such
books at the time from a great variety of sources. Such parts of it as
are not written by Smith--and these constitute a considerable portion of
the history--bear marks here and there of his touch. It begins with his
description of Virginia, which appeared in the Oxford tract of 1612;
following this are the several narratives by his comrades, which formed
the appendix of that tract. The one that concerns us here is that
already quoted, signed Thomas Studley. It is reproduced here as “written
by Thomas Studley, the first Cape Merchant in Virginia, Robert Fenton,
Edward Harrington, and I. S.” [John Smith]. It is, however, considerably
extended, and into it is interjected a detailed account of the captivity
and the story of the stones, the clubs, and the saved brains.

It is worthy of special note that the “True Relation” is not
incorporated in the “General Historie.” This is the more remarkable
because it was an original statement, written when the occurrences it
describes were fresh, and is much more in detail regarding many things
that happened during the period it covered than the narratives that
Smith uses in the “General Historie.” It was his habit to use over
and over again his own publications. Was this discarded because it
contradicted the Pocahontas story--because that story could not be
fitted into it as it could be into the Studley relation?

It should be added, also, that Purchas printed an abstract of the Oxford
tract in his “Pilgrimage,” in 1613, from material furnished him
by Smith. The Oxford tract was also republished by Purchas in his
“Pilgrimes,” extended by new matter in manuscript supplied by Smith.
The “Pilgrimes” did not appear till 1625, a year after the “General
Historie,” but was in preparation long before. The Pocahontas legend
appears in the “Pilgrimes,” but not in the earlier “Pilgrimage.”

We have before had occasion to remark that Smith's memory had the
peculiarity of growing stronger and more minute in details the further
he was removed in point of time from any event he describes. The
revamped narrative is worth quoting in full for other reasons. It
exhibits Smith's skill as a writer and his capacity for rising into
poetic moods. This is the story from the “General Historie”:

“The next voyage hee proceeded so farre that with much labour by cutting
of trees in sunder he made his passage, but when his Barge could pass
no farther, he left her in a broad bay out of danger of shot, commanding
none should goe ashore till his return: himselfe with two English and
two Salvages went up higher in a Canowe, but he was not long absent, but
his men went ashore, whose want of government, gave both occasion and
opportunity to the Salvages to surprise one George Cassen, whom they
slew, and much failed not to have cut of the boat and all the rest.
Smith little dreaming of that accident, being got to the marshes at the
river's head, twentie myles in the desert, had his two men slaine (as is
supposed) sleeping by the Canowe, whilst himselfe by fowling sought them
victuall, who finding he was beset with 200 Salvages, two of them hee
slew, still defending himself with the ayd of a Salvage his guide, whom
he bound to his arme with his garters, and used him as a buckler, yet
he was shot in his thigh a little, and had many arrowes stucke in his
cloathes but no great hurt, till at last they tooke him prisoner. When
this newes came to Jamestowne, much was their sorrow for his losse, fewe
expecting what ensued. Sixe or seven weekes those Barbarians kept him
prisoner, many strange triumphes and conjurations they made of him, yet
hee so demeaned himselfe amongst them, as he not onely diverted them
from surprising the Fort, but procured his owne libertie, and got
himself and his company such estimation amongst them, that those
Salvages admired him more than their owne Quiyouckosucks. The manner how
they used and delivered him, is as followeth.

“The Salvages having drawne from George Cassen whether Captaine Smith
was gone, prosecuting that opportunity they followed him with 300
bowmen, conducted by the King of Pamaunkee, who in divisions searching
the turnings of the river, found Robinson and Entry by the fireside,
those they shot full of arrowes and slew. Then finding the Captaine as
is said, that used the Salvage that was his guid