e as his shield (three
of them being slaine and divers others so gauld) all the rest would not
come neere him. Thinking thus to have returned to his boat, regarding
them, as he marched, more then his way, slipped up to the middle in an
oasie creeke and his Salvage with him, yet durst they not come to him
till being neere dead with cold, he threw away his armes. Then according
to their composition they drew him forth and led him to the fire, where
his men were slaine. Diligently they chafed his benumbed limbs. He
demanding for their Captaine, they shewed him Opechankanough, King of
Pamaunkee, to whom he gave a round Ivory double compass Dyall. Much they
marvailed at the playing of the Fly and Needle, which they could see so
plainly, and yet not touch it, because of the glass that covered them.
But when he demonstrated by that Globe-like Jewell, the roundnesse of
the earth and skies, the spheare of the Sunne, Moone, and Starres, and
how the Sunne did chase the night round about the world continually: the
greatnesse of the Land and Sea, the diversitie of Nations, varietie of
Complexions, and how we were to them Antipodes, and many other such
like matters, they all stood as amazed with admiration. Notwithstanding
within an houre after they tyed him to a tree, and as many as could
stand about him prepared to shoot him, but the King holding up the
Compass in his hand, they all laid downe their Bowes and Arrowes, and in
a triumphant manner led him to Orapaks, where he was after their manner
kindly feasted and well used.

“Their order in conducting him was thus: Drawing themselves all in fyle,
the King in the middest had all their Peeces and Swords borne before
him. Captaine Smith was led after him by three great Salvages, holding
him fast by each arme: and on each side six went in fyle with their
arrowes nocked. But arriving at the Towne (which was but onely thirtie
or fortie hunting houses made of Mats, which they remove as they please,
as we our tents) all the women and children staring to behold him, the
souldiers first all in file performe the forme of a Bissom so well as
could be: and on each flanke, officers as Serieants to see them keepe
their orders. A good time they continued this exercise, and then cast
themselves in a ring, dauncing in such severall Postures, and singing
and yelling out such hellish notes and screeches: being strangely
painted, every one his quiver of arrowes, and at his backe a club:
on his arme a Fox or an Otters skinne, or some such matter for his
vambrace: their heads and shoulders painted red, with oyle and Pocones
mingled together, which Scarlet like colour made an exceeding handsome
shew, his Bow in his hand, and the skinne of a Bird with her wings
abroad dryed, tyed on his head, a peece of copper, a white shell, a long
feather, with a small rattle growing at the tayles of their snaks tyed
to it, or some such like toy. All this time Smith and the King stood in
the middest guarded, as before is said, and after three dances they all
departed. Smith they conducted to a long house, where thirtie or fortie
tall fellowes did guard him, and ere long more bread and venison were
brought him then would have served twentie men. I thinke his stomacke at
that time was not very good; what he left they put in baskets and tyed
over his head. About midnight they set the meat again before him,
all this time not one of them would eat a bit with him, till the next
morning they brought him as much more, and then did they eate all the
old, and reserved the new as they had done the other, which made him
think they would fat him to eat him. Yet in this desperate estate to
defend him from the cold, one Maocassater brought him his gowne, in
requitall of some beads and toyes Smith had given him at his first
arrival in Firginia.

“Two days a man would have slaine him (but that the guard prevented it)
for the death of his sonne, to whom they conducted him to recover the
poore man then breathing his last. Smith told them that at James towne
he had a water would doe it if they would let him fetch it, but they
would not permit that: but made all the preparations they could to
assault James towne, craving his advice, and for recompence he should
have life, libertie, land, and women. In part of a Table booke he writ
his mind to them at the Fort, what was int