nge, and huge in growth, and of stupendious makes.”

“At last they brought him to Meronocomoco, where was Powhatan their
Emperor. Here more than two hundred of those grim Courtiers stood
wondering at him, as he had beene a monster, till Powhatan and his
trayne had put themselves in their greatest braveries. Before a fire
upon a seat like a bedstead, he sat covered with a great robe, made of
Rarowcun skinnes and all the tayles hanging by. On either hand did sit
a young wench of sixteen or eighteen years, and along on each side the
house, two rowes of men, and behind them as many women, with all their
heads and shoulders painted red; many of their heads bedecked with the
white downe of Birds; but everyone with something: and a great chayne of
white beads about their necks. At his entrance before the King, all the
people gave a great shout. The Queene of Appamatuck was appointed to
bring him water to wash his hands, and another brought him a bunch of
feathers, instead of a Towell to dry them: having feasted him after
their best barbarous manner they could. A long consultation was held,
but the conclusion was two great stones were brought before Powhatan;
then as many as could layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and
thereon laid his head, and being ready with their clubs, to beate out
his braines. Pocahontas, the King's dearest daughter, when no entreaty
could prevaile, got his head in her armes, and laid her owne upon his to
save him from death: whereat the Emperour was contented he should live
to make him hatchets, and her bells, beads, and copper: for they thought
him as well of all occupations as themselves. For the King himselfe will
make his owne robes, shooes, bowes, arrowes, pots, plant, hunt, or doe
any thing so well as the rest.

     'They say he bore a pleasant shew,
     But sure his heart was sad
     For who can pleasant be, and rest,
     That lives in feare and dread.
     And having life suspected, doth
     If still suspected lead.'

“Two days after, Powhatan having disguised himselfe in the most
fearfullest manner he could, caused Capt. Smith to be brought forth to
a great house in the woods and there upon a mat by the fire to be left
alone. Not long after from behinde a mat that divided the house, was
made the most dolefullest noyse he ever heard: then Powhatan more like a
devill than a man with some two hundred more as blacke as himseffe, came
unto him and told him now they were friends, and presently he should goe
to James town, to send him two great gunnes, and a gryndstone, for which
he would give him the country of Capahowojick, and for ever esteeme him
as his sonn Nantaquoud. So to James towne with 12 guides Powhatan sent
him. That night they quartered in the woods, he still expecting (as he
had done all this long time of his imprisonment) every houre to be put
to one death or other; for all their feasting. But almightie God (by his
divine providence) had mollified the hearts of those sterne Barbarians
with compassion. The next morning betimes they came to the Fort, where
Smith having used the salvages with what kindnesse he could, he shewed
Rawhunt, Powhatan's trusty servant, two demiculverings and a millstone
to carry Powhatan; they found them somewhat too heavie; but when they
did see him discharge them, being loaded with stones, among the boughs
of a great tree loaded with Isickles, the yce and branches came so
tumbling downe, that the poore Salvages ran away halfe dead with feare.
But at last we regained some conference with them and gave them such
toys: and sent to Powhatan, his women, and children such presents, and
gave them in generall full content. Now in James Towne they were all
in combustion, the strongest preparing once more to run away with
the Pinnace; which with the hazard of his life, with Sakre falcon and
musketshot, Smith forced now the third time to stay or sinke. Some no
better then they should be had plotted with the President, the next
day to have put him to death by the Leviticall law, for the lives of
Robinson and Emry, pretending the fault was his that had led them to
their ends; but he quickly tooke such order with such Lawyers, that
he layed them by the heeles till he sent some of them prisoners for
England. Now ever once in four or five dayes, Pocahontas with her
attendants, brought him so muc