h provision, that saved many of their
lives, that els for all this had starved with hunger.

   'Thus from numbe death our good God sent reliefe,
   The sweete asswager of all other griefe.'

“His relation of the plenty he had scene, especially at Werawocomoco,
and of the state and bountie of Powhatan (which till that time was
unknowne), so revived their dead spirits (especially the love of
Pocahontas) as all men's feare was abandoned.”


We should like to think original, in the above, the fine passage,
in which Smith, by means of a simple compass dial, demonstrated the
roundness of the earth, and skies, the sphere of the sun, moon, and
stars, and how the sun did chase the night round about the world
continually; the greatness of the land and sea, the diversity of
nations, variety of complexions, and how we were to them antipodes, so
that the Indians stood amazed with admiration.

Captain Smith up to his middle in a Chickahominy swamp, discoursing
on these high themes to a Pamunkey Indian, of whose language Smith was
wholly ignorant, and who did not understand a word of English, is much
more heroic, considering the adverse circumstances, and appeals more to
the imagination, than the long-haired Iopas singing the song of Atlas,
at the banquet given to AEneas, where Trojans and Tyrians drained the
flowing bumpers while Dido drank long draughts of love. Did Smith,
when he was in the neighborhood of Carthage pick up some such literal
translations of the song of Atlas' as this:

“He sang the wandering moon, and the labors of the Sun; From whence
the race of men and flocks; whence rain and lightning; Of Arcturus, the
rainy Hyades, and the twin Triones; Why the winter suns hasten so
much to touch themselves in the ocean, And what delay retards the slow
nights.”


The scene of the rescue only occupies seven lines and the reader feels
that, after all, Smith has not done full justice to it. We cannot,
therefore, better conclude this romantic episode than by quoting the
description of it given with an elaboration of language that must
be, pleasing to the shade of Smith, by John Burke in his History of
Virginia:

“Two large stones were brought in, and placed at the feet of the
emperor; and on them was laid the head of the prisoner; next a large
club was brought in, with which Powhatan, for whom, out of respect,
was reserved this honor, prepared to crush the head of his captive. The
assembly looked on with sensations of awe, probably not unmixed
with pity for the fate of an enemy whose bravery had commanded
their admiration, and in whose misfortunes their hatred was possibly
forgotten.

“The fatal club was uplifted: the breasts of the company already by
anticipation felt the dreadful crash, which was to bereave the wretched
victim of life: when the young and beautiful Pocahontas, the beloved
daughter of the emperor, with a shriek of terror and agony threw herself
on the body of Smith; Her hair was loose, and her eyes streaming with
tears, while her whole manner bespoke the deep distress and agony of her
bosom. She cast a beseeching look at her furious and astonished father,
deprecating his wrath, and imploring his pity and the life of his
prisoner, with all the eloquence of mute but impassioned sorrow.

“The remainder of this scene is honorable to Powhatan. It will remain
a lasting monument, that tho' different principles of action, and the
influence of custom, have given to the manners and opinions of this
people an appearance neither amiable nor virtuous, they still retain the
noblest property of human character, the touch of pity and the feeling
of humanity.

“The club of the emperor was still uplifted; but pity had touched his
bosom, and his eye was every moment losing its fierceness; he looked
around to collect his fortitude, or perhaps to find an excuse for his
weakness in the faces of his attendants. But every eye was suffused
with the sweetly contagious softness. The generous savage no longer
hesitated. The compassion of the rude state is neither ostentatious nor
dilating: nor does it insult its object by the exaction of impossible
conditions. Powhatan lifted his grateful and delighted daughter, and the
captive, scarcely yet assured of safety, from the earth....”

“The character of this interesting woman, as it stands in the concurrent
accou