oncubines, their heads and shoulders painted
red, with a great chain of white beads about each of their necks. Before
those sat his chiefest men in like order in his arbor-like house.”
 This is the scene that figures in the old copper-plate engravings. The
Emperor welcomed Smith with a kind countenance, caused him to sit beside
him, and with pretty discourse they renewed their old acquaintance.
Smith presented him with a suit of red cloth, a white greyhound, and a
hat. The Queen of Apamatuc, a comely young savage, brought him water,
a turkeycock, and bread to eat. Powhatan professed great content with
Smith, but desired to see his father, Captain Newport. He inquired also
with a merry countenance after the piece of ordnance that Smith had
promised to send him, and Smith, with equal jocularity, replied that he
had offered the men four demi-culverins, which they found too heavy
to carry. This night they quartered with Powhatan, and were liberally
feasted, and entertained with singing, dancing, and orations.

The next day Captain Newport came ashore. The two monarchs exchanged
presents. Newport gave Powhatan a white boy thirteen years old, named
Thomas Savage. This boy remained with the Indians and served the colony
many years as an interpreter. Powhatan gave Newport in return a bag of
beans and an Indian named Namontack for his servant. Three or four days
they remained, feasting, dancing, and trading with the Indians.

In trade the wily savage was more than a match for Newport. He affected
great dignity; it was unworthy such great werowances to dicker; it
was not agreeable to his greatness in a peddling manner to trade for
trifles; let the great Newport lay down his commodities all together,
and Powhatan would take what he wished, and recompense him with a proper
return. Smith, who knew the Indians and their ostentation, told Newport
that the intention was to cheat him, but his interference was resented.
The result justified Smith's suspicion. Newport received but four
bushels of corn when he should have had twenty hogsheads. Smith then
tried his hand at a trade. With a few blue beads, which he represented
as of a rare substance, the color of the skies, and worn by the greatest
kings in the world, he so inflamed the desire of Powhatan that he was
half mad to possess such strange jewels, and gave for them 200 to 300
bushels of corn, “and yet,” says Smith, “parted good friends.”

At this time Powhatan, knowing that they desired to invade or explore
Monacan, the country above the Falls, proposed an expedition, with
men and boats, and “this faire tale had almost made Captain Newport
undertake by this means to discover the South Sea,” a project which the
adventurers had always in mind. On this expedition they sojourned also
with the King of Pamaunke.

Captain Newport returned to England on the 10th of April. Mr. Scrivener
and Captain Smith were now in fact the sustainers of the colony. They
made short expeditions of exploration. Powhatan and other chiefs still
professed friendship and sent presents, but the Indians grew more and
more offensive, lurking about and stealing all they could lay hands on.
Several of them were caught and confined in the fort, and, guarded,
were conducted to the morning and evening prayers. By threats and slight
torture, the captives were made to confess the hostile intentions of
Powhatan and the other chiefs, which was to steal their weapons and then
overpower the colony. Rigorous measures were needed to keep the Indians
in check, but the command from England not to offend the savages was so
strict that Smith dared not chastise them as they deserved. The history
of the colony all this spring of 1608 is one of labor and discontent, of
constant annoyance from the Indians, and expectations of attacks. On the
20th of April, while they were hewing trees and setting corn, an alarm
was given which sent them all to their arms. Fright was turned into joy
by the sight of the Phoenix, with Captain Nelson and his company, who
had been for three months detained in the West Indies, and given up for
lost.

Being thus re-enforced, Smith and Scrivener desired to explore the
country above the Falls, and got ready an expedition. But this, Martin,
who was only intent upon loading the return ship with “his phantastical
gold,” opposed, and Nelson did 