tents at Jamestown
because our Captain did cause them to stay in their country against
their wills.” This reveals the suspicion and thoroughly bad feeling
existing among the colonists.

The expedition went up the river to a village called Patowomek, and
thence rowed up a little River Quiyough (Acquia Creek?) in search of a
mountain of antimony, which they found. The savages put this antimony
up in little bags and sold it all over the country to paint their
bodies and faces, which made them look like Blackamoors dusted over with
silver. Some bags of this they carried away, and also collected a good
amount of furs of otters, bears, martens, and minks. Fish were abundant,
“lying so thick with their heads above water, as for want of nets (our
barge driving among them) we attempted to catch them with a frying-pan;
but we found it a bad instrument to catch fish with; neither better
fish, more plenty, nor more variety for small fish, had any of us ever
seen in any place, so swimming in the water, but they are not to be
caught with frying-pans.”

In all his encounters and quarrels with the treacherous savages Smith
lost not a man; it was his habit when he encountered a body of them
to demand their bows, arrows, swords, and furs, and a child or two as
hostages.

Having finished his discovery he returned. Passing the mouth of the
Rappahannock, by some called the Tappahannock, where in shoal water were
many fish lurking in the weeds, Smith had his first experience of the
Stingray. It chanced that the Captain took one of these fish from
his sword, “not knowing her condition, being much the fashion of a
Thornbeck, but a long tayle like a riding rodde whereon the middest is
a most poysonne sting of two or three inches long, bearded like a saw on
each side, which she struck into the wrist of his arme neare an inch and
a half.” The arm and shoulder swelled so much, and the torment was
so great, that “we all with much sorrow concluded his funerale, and
prepared his grave in an island by, as himself directed.” But it
“pleased God by a precious oyle Dr. Russell applied to it that his
tormenting paine was so assuged that he ate of that fish to his supper.”

Setting sail for Jamestown, and arriving at Kecoughtan, the sight of the
furs and other plunder, and of Captain Smith wounded, led the Indians to
think that he had been at war with the Massawomeks; which opinion Smith
encouraged. They reached Jamestown July 21st, in fine spirits, to find
the colony in a mutinous condition, the last arrivals all sick, and the
others on the point of revenging themselves on the silly President, who
had brought them all to misery by his riotous consumption of the stores,
and by forcing them to work on an unnecessary pleasure-house for himself
in the woods. They were somewhat appeased by the good news of the
discovery, and in the belief that their bay stretched into the South
Sea; and submitted on condition that Ratclifte should be deposed and
Captain Smith take upon himself the government, “as by course it did
belong.” He consented, but substituted Mr. Scrivener, his dear friend,
in the presidency, distributed the provisions, appointed honest men
to assist Mr. Scrivener, and set out on the 24th, with twelve men, to
finish his discovery.

He passed by the Patowomek River and hasted to the River Bolus, which he
had before visited. In the bay they fell in with seven or eight canoes
full of the renowned Massawomeks, with whom they had a fight, but at
length these savages became friendly and gave them bows, arrows, and
skins. They were at war with the Tockwoghes. Proceeding up the River
Tockwogh, the latter Indians received them with friendship, because they
had the weapons which they supposed had been captured in a fight with
the Massawomeks. These Indians had hatchets, knives, pieces of iron and
brass, they reported came from the Susquesahanocks, a mighty people, the
enemies of the Massawomeks, living at the head of the bay. As Smith in
his barge could not ascend to them, he sent an interpreter to request a
visit from them. In three or four days sixty of these giant-like people
came down with presents of venison, tobacco-pipes three feet in length,
baskets, targets, and bows and arrows. Some further notice is necessary
of this first appearance of the Susquehannocks, who became afterwards