
so well known, by reason of their great stature and their friendliness.
Portraits of these noble savages appeared in De Bry's voyages, which
were used in Smith's map, and also by Strachey. These beautiful
copperplate engravings spread through Europe most exaggerated ideas of
the American savages.

“Our order,” says Smith, “was daily to have prayers, with a psalm,
at which solemnity the poor savages wondered.” When it was over the
Susquesahanocks, in a fervent manner, held up their hands to the sun,
and then embracing the Captain, adored him in like manner. With a
furious manner and “a hellish voyce” they began an oration of their
loves, covered him with their painted bear-skins, hung a chain of white
beads about his neck, and hailed his creation as their governor and
protector, promising aid and victuals if he would stay and help them
fight the Massawomeks. Much they told him of the Atquanachuks, who live
on the Ocean Sea, the Massawomeks and other people living on a great
water beyond the mountain (which Smith understood to be some great lake
or the river of Canada), and that they received their hatchets and other
commodities from the French. They moumed greatly at Smith's departure.
Of Powhatan they knew nothing but the name.

Strachey, who probably enlarges from Smith his account of the same
people, whom he calls Sasquesahanougs, says they were well-proportioned
giants, but of an honest and simple disposition. Their language well
beseemed their proportions, “sounding from them as it were a great voice
in a vault or cave, as an ecco.” The picture of one of these chiefs is
given in De Bry, and described by Strachey,” the calf of whose leg
was three-quarters of a yard about, and all the rest of his limbs so
answerable to the same proportions that he seemed the goodliest man they
ever saw.”

It would not entertain the reader to follow Smith in all the small
adventures of the exploration, during which he says he went about 3,000
miles (three thousand miles in three or four weeks in a rowboat is
nothing in Smith's memory), “with such watery diet in these great
waters and barbarous countries.” Much hardship he endured, alternately
skirmishing and feasting with the Indians; many were the tribes he
struck an alliance with, and many valuable details he added to the
geographical knowledge of the region. In all this exploration Smith
showed himself skillful as he was vigorous and adventurous.

He returned to James River September 7th. Many had died, some were
sick, Ratcliffe, the late President, was a prisoner for mutiny,
Master Scrivener had diligently gathered the harvest, but much of the
provisions had been spoiled by rain. Thus the summer was consumed, and
nothing had been accomplished except Smith's discovery.




XI. SMITH'S PRESIDENCY AND PROWESS

On the 10th of September, by the election of the Council and the request
of the company, Captain Smith received the letters-patent, and became
President. He stopped the building of Ratcliffe's “palace,” repaired
the church and the storehouse, got ready the buildings for the supply
expected from England, reduced the fort to a “five square form,” set and
trained the watch and exercised the company every Saturday on a plain
called Smithfield, to the amazement of the on-looking Indians.

Captain Newport arrived with a new supply of seventy persons. Among
them were Captain Francis West, brother to Lord Delaware, Captain Peter
Winne, and Captain Peter Waldo, appointed on the Council, eight Dutchmen
and Poles, and Mistress Forest and Anne Burrows her maid, the first
white women in the colony.

Smith did not relish the arrival of Captain Newport nor the instructions
under which he returned. He came back commanded to discover the country
of Monacan (above the Falls) and to perform the ceremony of coronation
on the Emperor Powhatan.

How Newport got this private commission when he had returned to England
without a lump of gold, nor any certainty of the South Sea, or one of
the lost company sent out by Raleigh; and why he brought a “fine peeced
barge” which must be carried over unknown mountains before it reached
the South Sea, he could not understand. “As for the coronation of
Powhatan and his presents of basin and ewer, bed, bedding, clothes, and
such costly novelties, they had been much better well spared 