than so ill
spent, for we had his favor and better for a plain piece of copper, till
this stately kind of soliciting made him so much overvalue himself that
he respected us as much as nothing at all.” Smith evidently understood
the situation much better than the promoters in England; and we can
quite excuse him in his rage over the foolishness and greed of most of
his companions. There was little nonsense about Smith in action, though
he need not turn his hand on any man of that age as a boaster.

To send out Poles and Dutchmen to make pitch, tar, and glass would have
been well enough if the colony had been firmly established and supplied
with necessaries; and they might have sent two hundred colonists instead
of seventy, if they had ordered them to go to work collecting provisions
of the Indians for the winter, instead of attempting this strange
discovery of the South Sea, and wasting their time on a more strange
coronation. “Now was there no way,” asks Smith, “to make us miserable,”
 but by direction from England to perform this discovery and coronation,
“to take that time, spend what victuals we had, tire and starve our men,
having no means to carry victuals, ammunition, the hurt or the sick, but
on their own backs?”

Smith seems to have protested against all this nonsense, but though he
was governor, the Council overruled him. Captain Newport decided to take
one hundred and twenty men, fearing to go with a less number and journey
to Werowocomoco to crown Powhatan. In order to save time Smith offered
to take a message to Powhatan, and induce him to come to Jamestown and
receive the honor and the presents. Accompanied by only four men he
crossed by land to Werowocomoco, passed the Pamaunkee (York) River in
a canoe, and sent for Powhatan, who was thirty miles off. Meantime
Pocahontas, who by his own account was a mere child, and her women
entertained Smith in the following manner:

“In a fayre plaine they made a fire, before which, sitting upon a mat,
suddenly amongst the woods was heard such a hydeous noise and shreeking
that the English betook themselves to their armes, and seized upon two
or three old men, by them supposing Powhatan with all his power was come
to surprise them. But presently Pocahontas came, willing him to kill her
if any hurt were intended, and the beholders, which were men, women and
children, satisfied the Captaine that there was no such matter. Then
presently they were presented with this anticke: Thirty young women came
naked out of the woods, only covered behind and before with a few greene
leaves, their bodies all painted, some of one color, some of another,
but all differing; their leader had a fayre payre of Bucks hornes on
her head, and an Otters skinne at her girdle, and another at her arme,
a quiver of arrows at her backe, a bow and arrows in her hand; the
next had in her hand a sword, another a club, another a pot-sticke:
all horned alike; the rest every one with their several devises. These
fiends with most hellish shouts and cries, rushing from among the trees,
cast themselves in a ring about the fire, singing and dancing with most
excellent ill-varietie, oft falling into their infernal passions, and
solemnly again to sing and dance; having spent nearly an hour in this
Mascarado, as they entered, in like manner they departed.

“Having reaccommodated themselves, they solemnly invited him to their
lodgings, where he was no sooner within the house, but all these Nymphs
more tormented him than ever, with crowding, pressing, and hanging about
him, most tediously crying, 'Love you not me? Love you not me?' This
salutation ended, the feast was set, consisting of all the Salvage
dainties they could devise: some attending, others singing and dancing
about them: which mirth being ended, with fire brands instead of torches
they conducted him to his lodging.”

The next day Powhatan arrived. Smith delivered up the Indian Namontuck,
who had just returned from a voyage to England--whither it was suspected
the Emperor wished him to go to spy out the weakness of the English
tribe--and repeated Father Newport's request that Powhatan would come to
Jamestown to receive the presents and join in an expedition against his
enemies, the Monacans.

Powhatan's reply was worthy of his imperial highness, and has been
copied ever since in th