 to starve them (as if it was the business
of the Indians to support all the European vagabonds and adventurers who
came to dispossess them of their country), Smith gave out that he came
not so much for corn as to revenge his imprisonment and the death of his
men murdered by the Indians, and proceeded to make war. This high-handed
treatment made the savages sue for peace, and furnish, although they
complained of want themselves, owing to a bad harvest, a hundred bushels
of corn.

This supply contented the company, who feared nothing so much as
starving, and yet, says Smith, so envied him that they would rather
hazard starving than have him get reputation by his vigorous conduct.
There is no contemporary account of that period except this which Smith
indited. He says that Newport and Ratcliffe conspired not only to depose
him but to keep him out of the fort; since being President they could
not control his movements, but that their horns were much too short to
effect it.

At this time in the “old Taverne,” as Smith calls the fort, everybody
who had money or goods made all he could by trade; soldiers, sailors,
and savages were agreed to barter, and there was more care to maintain
their damnable and private trade than to provide the things necessary
for the colony. In a few weeks the whites had bartered away nearly all
the axes, chisels, hoes, and picks, and what powder, shot, and pikeheads
they could steal, in exchange for furs, baskets, young beasts and such
like commodities. Though the supply of furs was scanty in Virginia, one
master confessed he had got in one voyage by this private trade what he
sold in England for thirty pounds. “These are the Saint-seeming
Worthies of Virginia,” indignantly exclaims the President, “that have,
notwithstanding all this, meate, drinke, and wages.” But now they began
to get weary of the country, their trade being prevented. “The loss,
scorn, and misery was the poor officers, gentlemen and careless
governors, who were bought and sold.” The adventurers were cheated, and
all their actions overthrown by false information and unwise directions.

Master Scrivener was sent with the barges and pinnace to Werowocomoco,
where by the aid of Namontuck he procured a little corn, though the
savages were more ready to fight than to trade. At length Newport's
ship was loaded with clapboards, pitch, tar, glass, frankincense (?) and
soapashes, and despatched to England. About two hundred men were left in
the colony. With Newport, Smith sent his famous letter to the Treasurer
and Council in England. It is so good a specimen of Smith's ability with
the pen, reveals so well his sagacity and knowledge of what a colony
needed, and exposes so clearly the ill-management of the London
promoters, and the condition of the colony, that we copy it entire.
It appears by this letter that Smith's “Map of Virginia,” and his
description of the country and its people, which were not published till
1612, were sent by this opportunity. Captain Newport sailed for England
late in the autumn of 1608. The letter reads:

RIGHT HONORABLE, ETC.:

I received your letter wherein you write that our minds are so set
upon faction, and idle conceits in dividing the country without your
consents, and that we feed you but with ifs and ands, hopes and some few
proofes; as if we would keepe the mystery of the businesse to ourselves:
and that we must expressly follow your instructions sent by Captain
Newport: the charge of whose voyage amounts to neare two thousand
pounds, the which if we cannot defray by the ships returne we are likely
to remain as banished men. To these particulars I humbly intreat your
pardons if I offend you with my rude answer.

For our factions, unless you would have me run away and leave the
country, I cannot prevent them; because I do make many stay that would
else fly away whither. For the Idle letter sent to my Lord of Salisbury,
by the President and his confederates, for dividing the country, &c.,
what it was I know not, for you saw no hand of mine to it; nor ever
dream't I of any such matter. That we feed you with hopes, &c. Though
I be no scholar, I am past a schoolboy; and I desire but to know what
either you and these here doe know, but that I have learned to tell
you by the continuall hazard of my life. I have not concealed from you
a