nything I know; but I feare some cause you to believe much more than is
true.

Expressly to follow your directions by Captain Newport, though they be
performed, I was directly against it; but according to our commission,
I was content to be overouled by the major part of the Councill, I feare
to the hazard of us all; which now is generally confessed when it is
too late. Onely Captaine Winne and Captaine Walclo I have sworne of the
Councill, and crowned Powhattan according to your instructions.

For the charge of the voyage of two or three thousand pounds we have not
received the value of one hundred pounds, and for the quartered boat to
be borne by the souldiers over the falls. Newport had 120 of the best
men he could chuse. If he had burnt her to ashes, one might have carried
her in a bag, but as she is, five hundred cannot to a navigable place
above the falls. And for him at that time to find in the South Sea
a mine of gold; or any of them sent by Sir Walter Raleigh; at our
consultation I told them was as likely as the rest. But during this
great discovery of thirtie miles (which might as well have been done
by one man, and much more, for the value of a pound of copper at a
seasonable tyme), they had the pinnace and all the boats with them but
one that remained with me to serve the fort. In their absence I followed
the new begun works of Pitch and Tarre, Glasse, Sope-ashes, Clapboord,
whereof some small quantities we have sent you. But if you rightly
consider what an infinite toyle it is in Russia and Swethland, where the
woods are proper for naught els, and though there be the helpe both
of man and beast in those ancient commonwealths, which many an hundred
years have used it, yet thousands of those poor people can scarce get
necessaries to live, but from hand to mouth, and though your factors
there can buy as much in a week as will fraught you a ship, or as much
as you please, you must not expect from us any such matter, which are
but as many of ignorant, miserable soules, that are scarce able to get
wherewith to live, and defend ourselves against the inconstant Salvages:
finding but here and there a tree fit for the purpose, and want all
things else the Russians have. For the Coronation of Powhattan, by whose
advice you sent him such presents, I know not; but this give me leave to
tell you, I feare they will be the confusion of us all ere we heare
from you again. At your ships arrivall, the Salvages harvest was newly
gathered, and we going to buy it, our owne not being halve sufficient
for so great a number. As for the two ships loading of corne Newport
promised to provide us from Powhattan, he brought us but fourteen
bushels; and from the Monacans nothing, but the most of the men sicke
and neare famished. From your ship we had not provision in victuals
worth twenty pound, and we are more than two hundred to live upon
this, the one halfe sicke, the other little better. For the saylers (I
confesse), they daily make good cheare, but our dyet is a little meale
and water, and not sufficient of that. Though there be fish in the Sea,
fowles in the ayre, and beasts in the woods, their bounds are so large,
they so wilde, and we so weake and ignorant, we cannot much trouble
them. Captaine Newport we much suspect to be the Author of these
inventions. Now that you should know, I have made you as great a
discovery as he, for less charge than he spendeth you every meale; I had
sent you this mappe of the Countries and Nations that inhabit them, as
you may see at large. Also two barrels of stones, and such as I take to
be good. Iron ore at the least; so divided, as by their notes you may
see in what places I found them. The souldiers say many of your officers
maintaine their families out of that you sent us, and that Newport hath
an hundred pounds a year for carrying newes. For every master you have
yet sent can find the way as well as he, so that an hundred pounds might
be spared, which is more than we have all, that helps to pay him wages.
Cap. Ratliffe is now called Sicklemore, a poore counterfeited Imposture.
I have sent you him home least the Company should cut his throat. What
he is, now every one can tell you: if he and Archer returne againe, they
are sufficient to keep us always in factions. When you send againe I
entreat you rather send but thirty carpen