owocomoco.
The river was frozen half a mile from the shore, and when the barge
could not come to land by reason of the ice and muddy shallows, they
effected a landing by wading. Powhatan at their request sent them
venison, turkeys, and bread; the next day he feasted them, and then
inquired when they were going, ignoring his invitation to them to come.
Hereupon followed a long game of fence between Powhatan and Captain
Smith, each trying to overreach the other, and each indulging profusely
in lies and pledges. Each professed the utmost love for the other.

Smith upbraided him with neglect of his promise to supply them with
corn, and told him, in reply to his demand for weapons, that he had no
arms to spare. Powhatan asked him, if he came on a peaceful errand, to
lay aside his weapons, for he had heard that the English came not so
much for trade as to invade his people and possess his country, and
the people did not dare to bring in their corn while the English were
around.

Powhatan seemed indifferent about the building. The Dutchmen who had
come to build Powhatan a house liked the Indian plenty better than the
risk of starvation with the colony, revealed to Powhatan the poverty
of the whites, and plotted to betray them, of which plot Smith was not
certain till six months later. Powhatan discoursed eloquently on the
advantage of peace over war: “I have seen the death of all my people
thrice,” he said, “and not any one living of those three generations
but myself; I know the difference of peace and war better than any in my
country. But I am now old and ere long must die.” He wanted to leave his
brothers and sisters in peace. He heard that Smith came to destroy
his country. He asked him what good it would do to destroy them that
provided his food, to drive them into the woods where they must feed on
roots and acorns; “and be so hunted by you that I can neither rest, eat
nor sleep, but my tired men must watch, and if a twig but break every
one crieth, there cometh Captain Smith!” They might live in peace, and
trade, if Smith would only lay aside his arms. Smith, in return,
boasted of his power to get provisions, and said that he had only been
restrained from violence by his love for Powhatan; that the Indians came
armed to Jamestown, and it was the habit of the whites to wear their
arms. Powhatan then contrasted the liberality of Newport, and told Smith
that while he had used him more kindly than any other chief, he had
received from him (Smith) the least kindness of any.

Believing that the palaver was only to get an opportunity to cut his
throat, Smith got the savages to break the ice in order to bring up the
barge and load it with corn, and gave orders for his soldiers to land
and surprise Powhatan; meantime, to allay his suspicions, telling him
the lie that next day he would lay aside his arms and trust Powhatan's
promises. But Powhatan was not to be caught with such chaff. Leaving two
or three women to talk with the Captain he secretly fled away with his
women, children, and luggage. When Smith perceived this treachery he
fired into the “naked devils” who were in sight. The next day Powhatan
sent to excuse his flight, and presented him a bracelet and chain of
pearl and vowed eternal friendship.

With matchlocks lighted, Smith forced the Indians to load the boats; but
as they were aground, and could not be got off till high water, he was
compelled to spend the night on shore. Powhatan and the treacherous
Dutchmen are represented as plotting to kill Smith that night.
Provisions were to be brought him with professions of friendship, and
Smith was to be attacked while at supper. The Indians, with all the
merry sports they could devise, spent the time till night, and then
returned to Powhatan.

The plot was frustrated in the providence of God by a strange means.
“For Pocahuntas his dearest jewele and daughter in that dark night came
through the irksome woods, and told our Captaine good cheer should be
sent us by and by; but Powhatan and all the power he could make would
after come and kill us all, if they that brought it could not kill us
with our own weapons when we were at supper. Therefore if we would live
she wished us presently to be gone. Such things as she delighted in he
would have given her; but with the tears rolling down her cheeks she
sai