d she durst not to be seen to have any; for if Powhatan should know
it, she were but dead, and so she ran away by herself as she came.”

[This instance of female devotion is exactly paralleled in D'Albertis's
“New Guinea.” Abia, a pretty Biota girl of seventeen, made her way to
his solitary habitation at the peril of her life, to inform him that the
men of Rapa would shortly bring him insects and other presents, in order
to get near him without suspicion, and then kill him. He tried to reward
the brave girl by hanging a gold chain about her neck, but she refused
it, saying it would betray her. He could only reward her with a fervent
kiss, upon which she fled. Smith omits that part of the incident.]


In less than an hour ten burly fellows arrived with great platters of
victuals, and begged Smith to put out the matches (the smoke of which
made them sick) and sit down and eat. Smith, on his guard, compelled
them to taste each dish, and then sent them back to Powhatan. All night
the whites watched, but though the savages lurked about, no attack
was made. Leaving the four Dutchmen to build Powhatan's house, and
an Englishman to shoot game for him, Smith next evening departed for
Pamaunky.

No sooner had he gone than two of the Dutchmen made their way overland
to Jamestown, and, pretending Smith had sent them, procured arms, tools,
and clothing. They induced also half a dozen sailors, “expert thieves,”
 to accompany them to live with Powhatan; and altogether they stole,
besides powder and shot, fifty swords, eight pieces, eight pistols, and
three hundred hatchets. Edward Boynton and Richard Savage, who had been
left with Powhatan, seeing the treachery, endeavored to escape, but were
apprehended by the Indians.

At Pamaunky there was the same sort of palaver with Opechancanough,
the king, to whom Smith the year before had expounded the mysteries of
history, geography, and astronomy. After much fencing in talk, Smith,
with fifteen companions, went up to the King's house, where presently
he found himself betrayed and surrounded by seven hundred armed savages,
seeking his life. His company being dismayed, Smith restored their
courage by a speech, and then, boldly charging the King with intent to
murder him, he challenged him to a single combat on an island in the
river, each to use his own arms, but Smith to be as naked as the King.
The King still professed friendship, and laid a great present at the
door, about which the Indians lay in ambush to kill Smith. But this
hero, according to his own account, took prompt measures. He marched out
to the King where he stood guarded by fifty of his chiefs, seized him
by his long hair in the midst of his men, and pointing a pistol at
his breast led, him trembling and near dead with fear amongst all his
people. The King gave up his arms, and the savages, astonished that
any man dare treat their king thus, threw down their bows. Smith, still
holding the King by the hair, made them a bold address, offering peace
or war. They chose peace.

In the picture of this remarkable scene in the “General Historie,” the
savage is represented as gigantic in stature, big enough to crush
the little Smith in an instant if he had but chosen. Having given the
savages the choice to load his ship with corn or to load it himself with
their dead carcasses, the Indians so thronged in with their commodities
that Smith was tired of receiving them, and leaving his comrades to
trade, he lay down to rest. When he was asleep the Indians, armed some
with clubs, and some with old English swords, entered into the house.
Smith awoke in time, seized his arms, and others coming to his rescue,
they cleared the house.

While enduring these perils, sad news was brought from Jamestown. Mr.
Scrivener, who had letters from England (writes Smith) urging him to
make himself Caesar or nothing, declined in his affection for Smith, and
began to exercise extra authority. Against the advice of the others, he
needs must make a journey to the Isle of Hogs, taking with him in
the boat Captain Waldo, Anthony Gosnoll (or Gosnold, believed to be a
relative of Captain Bartholomew Gosnold), and eight others. The boat was
overwhelmed in a storm, and sunk, no one knows how or where. The savages
were the first to discover the bodies of the lost. News of this disaster
was broug