 it.

The Dutchmen with Powhatan continued to make trouble, and confederates
in the camp supplied them with powder and shot, swords and tools.
Powhatan kept the whites who were with him to instruct the Indians in
the art of war. They expected other whites to join them, and those not
coming, they sent Francis, their companion, disguised as an Indian, to
find out the cause. He came to the Glass house in the woods a mile from
Jamestown, which was the rendezvous for all their villainy. Here they
laid an ambush of forty men for Smith, who hearing of the Dutchman, went
thither to apprehend him. The rascal had gone, and Smith, sending twenty
soldiers to follow and capture him, started alone from the Glass house
to return to the fort. And now occurred another of those personal
adventures which made Smith famous by his own narration.

On his way he encountered the King of Paspahegh, “a most strong, stout
savage,” who, seeing that Smith had only his falchion, attempted to
shoot him. Smith grappled him; the savage prevented his drawing his
blade, and bore him into the river to drown him. Long they struggled in
the water, when the President got the savage by the throat and nearly
strangled him, and drawing his weapon, was about to cut off his head,
when the King begged his life so pitifully, that Smith led him prisoner
to the fort and put him in chains.

In the pictures of this achievement, the savage is represented as about
twice the size and stature of Smith; another illustration that this
heroic soul was never contented to take one of his size.

The Dutchman was captured, who, notwithstanding his excuses that he had
escaped from Powhatan and did not intend to return, but was only walking
in the woods to gather walnuts, on the testimony of Paspahegh of his
treachery, was also “laid by the heels.” Smith now proposed to Paspahegh
to spare his life if he would induce Powhatan to send back the renegade
Dutchmen. The messengers for this purpose reported that the Dutchmen,
though not detained by Powhatan, would not come, and the Indians said
they could not bring them on their backs fifty miles through the woods.
Daily the King's wives, children, and people came to visit him, and
brought presents to procure peace and his release. While this was going
on, the King, though fettered, escaped. A pursuit only resulted in a
vain fight with the Indians. Smith then made prisoners of two Indians
who seemed to be hanging around the camp, Kemps and Tussore, “the two
most exact villains in all the country,” who would betray their own
king and kindred for a piece of copper, and sent them with a force of
soldiers, under Percy, against Paspahegh. The expedition burned his
house, but did not capture the fugitive. Smith then went against them
himself, killed six or seven, burned their houses, and took their boats
and fishing wires. Thereupon the savages sued for peace, and an amnesty
was established that lasted as long as Smith remained in the country.

Another incident occurred about this time which greatly raised Smith's
credit in all that country. The Chicahomanians, who always were friendly
traders, were great thieves. One of them stole a Pistol, and two proper
young fellows, brothers, known to be his confederates, were apprehended.
One of them was put in the dungeon and the other sent to recover the
pistol within twelve hours, in default of which his brother would be
hanged. The President, pitying the wretched savage in the dungeon, sent
him some victuals and charcoal for a fire. “Ere midnight his brother
returned with the pistol, but the poor savage in the dungeon was so
smothered with the smoke he had made, and so piteously burnt, that we
found him dead. The other most lamentably bewailed his death, and broke
forth in such bitter agonies, that the President, to quiet him, told him
that if hereafter they would not steal, he would make him alive again;
but he (Smith) little thought he could be recovered.” Nevertheless, by
a liberal use of aqua vitae and vinegar the Indian was brought again to
life, but “so drunk and affrighted that he seemed lunatic, the which as
much tormented and grieved the other as before to see him dead.” Upon
further promise of good behavior Smith promised to bring the Indian out
of this malady also, and so laid him by a fire to sleep. In the morning
the 