er, most of the persons who returned had probably carried a bad
report of him. Argall brought to Jamestown from London a report of great
complaints of him for his dealings with the savages and not returning
ships freighted with the products of the country. Misrepresented in
London, and unsupported and conspired against in Virginia, Smith felt
his fall near at hand. On the face of it he was the victim of envy and
the rascality of incompetent and bad men; but whatever his capacity
for dealing with savages, it must be confessed that he lacked something
which conciliates success with one's own people. A new commission was
about to be issued, and a great supply was in preparation under Lord De
La Ware.




XIII. SMITH'S LAST DAYS IN VIRGINIA

The London company were profoundly dissatisfied with the results of the
Virginia colony. The South Sea was not discovered, no gold had turned
up, there were no valuable products from the new land, and the promoters
received no profits on their ventures. With their expectations, it
is not to be wondered at that they were still further annoyed by the
quarreling amongst the colonists themselves, and wished to begin over
again.

A new charter, dated May 23, 1609, with enlarged powers, was got from
King James. Hundreds of corporators were named, and even thousands were
included in the various London trades and guilds that were joined in the
enterprise. Among the names we find that of Captain John Smith. But
he was out of the Council, nor was he given then or ever afterward any
place or employment in Virginia, or in the management of its affairs.
The grant included all the American coast two hundred miles north and
two hundred miles south of Point Comfort, and all the territory from the
coast up into the land throughout from sea to sea, west and northwest.
A leading object of the project still being (as we have seen it was with
Smith's precious crew at Jamestown) the conversion and reduction of the
natives to the true religion, no one was permitted in the colony who had
not taken the oath of supremacy.

Under this charter the Council gave a commission to Sir Thomas
West, Lord Delaware, Captain-General of Virginia; Sir Thomas Gates,
Lieutenant-General; Sir George Somers, Admiral; Captain Newport,
Vice-Admiral; Sir Thomas Dale, High Marshal; Sir Frederick Wainman,
General of the Horse, and many other officers for life.

With so many wealthy corporators money flowed into the treasury, and a
great expedition was readily fitted out. Towards the end of May, 1609,
there sailed from England nine ships and five hundred people, under the
command of Sir Thomas Gates, Sir George Somers, and Captain Newport.
Each of these commanders had a commission, and the one who arrived first
was to call in the old commission; as they could not agree, they all
sailed in one ship, the Sea Venture.

This brave expedition was involved in a contest with a hurricane; one
vessel was sunk, and the Sea Venture, with the three commanders, one
hundred and fifty men, the new commissioners, bills of lading, all sorts
of instructions, and much provision, was wrecked on the Bermudas. With
this company was William Strachey, of whom we shall hear more hereafter.
Seven vessels reached Jamestown, and brought, among other annoyances,
Smith's old enemy, Captain Ratcliffe, alias Sicklemore, in command of a
ship. Among the company were also Captains Martin, Archer, Wood, Webbe,
Moore, King, Davis, and several gentlemen of good means, and a crowd
of the riff-raff of London. Some of these Captains whom Smith had
sent home, now returned with new pretensions, and had on the voyage
prejudiced the company against him. When the fleet was first espied, the
President thought it was Spaniards, and prepared to defend himself, the
Indians promptly coming to his assistance.

This hurricane tossed about another expedition still more famous, that
of Henry Hudson, who had sailed from England on his third voyage toward
Nova Zembla March 25th, and in July and August was beating down the
Atlantic coast. On the 18th of August he entered the Capes of Virginia,
and sailed a little way up the Bay. He knew he was at the mouth of the
James River, “where our Englishmen are,” as he says. The next day a gale
from the northeast made him fear being driven aground in the shallows,
and he put 