to sea. The storm continued for several days. On the 21st “a
sea broke over the fore-course and split it;” and that night something
more ominous occurred: “that night [the chronicle records] our cat ran
crying from one side of the ship to the other, looking overboard, which
made us to wonder, but we saw nothing.” On the 26th they were again off
the bank of Virginia, and in the very bay and in sight of the islands
they had seen on the 18th. It appeared to Hudson “a great bay with
rivers,” but too shallow to explore without a small boat. After
lingering till the 29th, without any suggestion of ascending the James,
he sailed northward and made the lucky stroke of river exploration which
immortalized him.

It seems strange that he did not search for the English colony, but the
adventurers of that day were independent actors, and did not care to
share with each other the glories of discovery.

The first of the scattered fleet of Gates and Somers came in on the
11th, and the rest straggled along during the three or four days
following. It was a narrow chance that Hudson missed them all, and one
may imagine that the fate of the Virginia colony and of the New York
settlement would have been different if the explorer of the Hudson had
gone up the James.

No sooner had the newcomers landed than trouble began. They would have
deposed Smith on report of the new commission, but they could show no
warrant. Smith professed himself willing to retire to England, but,
seeing the new commission did not arrive, held on to his authority, and
began to enforce it to save the whole colony from anarchy. He depicts
the situation in a paragraph: “To a thousand mischiefs these lewd
Captains led this lewd company, wherein were many unruly gallants,
packed thither by their friends to escape ill destinies, and those would
dispose and determine of the government, sometimes to one, the next day
to another; today the old commission must rule, tomorrow the new, the
next day neither; in fine, they would rule all or ruin all; yet in
charity we must endure them thus to destroy us, or by correcting their
follies, have brought the world's censure upon us to be guilty of their
blouds. Happie had we beene had they never arrived, and we forever
abandoned, as we were left to our fortunes; for on earth for their
number was never more confusion or misery than their factions
occasioned.” In this company came a boy, named Henry Spelman, whose
subsequent career possesses considerable interest.

The President proceeded with his usual vigor: he “laid by the heels” the
chief mischief-makers till he should get leisure to punish them; sent
Mr. West with one hundred and twenty good men to the Falls to make a
settlement; and despatched Martin with near as many and their proportion
of provisions to Nansemond, on the river of that name emptying into the
James, obliquely opposite Point Comfort.

Lieutenant Percy was sick and had leave to depart for England when he
chose. The President's year being about expired, in accordance with
the charter, he resigned, and Captain Martin was elected President. But
knowing his inability, he, after holding it three hours, resigned it to
Smith, and went down to Nansemond. The tribe used him kindly, but he was
so frightened with their noisy demonstration of mirth that he surprised
and captured the poor naked King with his houses, and began fortifying
his position, showing so much fear that the savages were emboldened to
attack him, kill some of his men, release their King, and carry off a
thousand bushels of corn which had been purchased, Martin not offering
to intercept them. The frightened Captain sent to Smith for aid, who
despatched to him thirty good shot. Martin, too chicken-hearted to use
them, came back with them to Jamestown, leaving his company to their
fortunes. In this adventure the President commends the courage of one
George Forrest, who, with seventeen arrows sticking into him and one
shot through him, lived six or seven days.

Meantime Smith, going up to the Falls to look after Captain West, met
that hero on his way to Jamestown. He turned him back, and found that he
had planted his colony on an unfavorable flat, subject not only to the
overflowing of the river, but to more intolerable inconveniences. To
place him more advantageously the President sent to 