Powhatan, offering
to buy the place called Powhatan, promising to defend him against the
Monacans, to pay him in copper, and make a general alliance of trade and
friendship.

But “those furies,” as Smith calls West and his associates, refused
to move to Powhatan or to accept these conditions. They contemned his
authority, expecting all the time the new commission, and, regarding
all the Monacans' country as full of gold, determined that no one should
interfere with them in the possession of it. Smith, however, was not
intimidated from landing and attempting to quell their mutiny. In his
“General Historie” it is written “I doe more than wonder to think
how onely with five men he either durst or would adventure as he did
(knowing how greedy they were of his bloud) to come amongst them.” He
landed and ordered the arrest of the chief disturbers, but the crowd
hustled him off. He seized one of their boats and escaped to the ship
which contained the provision. Fortunately the sailors were friendly and
saved his life, and a considerable number of the better sort, seeing the
malice of Ratcliffe and Archer, took Smith's part.

Out of the occurrences at this new settlement grew many of the charges
which were preferred against Smith. According to the “General Historie”
 the company of Ratcliffe and Archer was a disorderly rabble, constantly
tormenting the Indians, stealing their corn, robbing their gardens,
beating them, and breaking into their houses and taking them prisoners.
The Indians daily complained to the President that these “protectors”
 he had given them were worse enemies than the Monacans, and desired
his pardon if they defended themselves, since he could not punish their
tormentors. They even proposed to fight for him against them. Smith says
that after spending nine days in trying to restrain them, and showing
them how they deceived themselves with “great guilded hopes of the South
Sea Mines,” he abandoned them to their folly and set sail for Jamestown.

No sooner was he under way than the savages attacked the fort, slew
many of the whites who were outside, rescued their friends who were
prisoners, and thoroughly terrified the garrison. Smith's ship happening
to go aground half a league below, they sent off to him, and were glad
to submit on any terms to his mercy. He “put by the heels” six or seven
of the chief offenders, and transferred the colony to Powhatan, where
were a fort capable of defense against all the savages in Virginia, dry
houses for lodging, and two hundred acres of ground ready to be planted.
This place, so strong and delightful in situation, they called Non-such.
The savages appeared and exchanged captives, and all became friends
again.

At this moment, unfortunately, Captain West returned. All the victuals
and munitions having been put ashore, the old factious projects were
revived. The soft-hearted West was made to believe that the rebellion
had been solely on his account. Smith, seeing them bent on their own
way, took the row-boat for Jamestown. The colony abandoned the pleasant
Non-such and returned to the open air at West's Fort. On his way down,
Smith met with the accident that suddenly terminated his career in
Virginia.

While he was sleeping in his boat his powder-bag was accidentally fired;
the explosion tore the flesh from his body and thighs, nine or ten
inches square, in the most frightful manner. To quench the tormenting
fire, frying him in his clothes, he leaped into the deep river, where,
ere they could recover him, he was nearly drowned. In this pitiable
condition, without either surgeon or surgery, he was to go nearly a
hundred miles.

It is now time for the appearance upon the scene of the boy Henry
Spelman, with his brief narration, which touches this period of Smith's
life. Henry Spelman was the third son of the distinguished antiquarian,
Sir Henry Spelman, of Coughan, Norfolk, who was married in 1581. It is
reasonably conjectured that he could not have been over twenty-one
when in May, 1609, he joined the company going to Virginia. Henry was
evidently a scapegrace, whose friends were willing to be rid of him.
Such being his character, it is more than probable that he was
shipped bound as an apprentice, and of course with the conditions of
apprenticeship in like expeditions of that period--to be sold or 