bound
out at the end of the voyage to pay for his passage. He remained for
several years in Virginia, living most of the time among the Indians,
and a sort of indifferent go between of the savages and the settlers.
According to his own story it was on October 20, 1609, that he was taken
up the river to Powhatan by Captain Smith, and it was in April, 1613,
that he was rescued from his easy-setting captivity on the Potomac by
Captain Argall. During his sojourn in Virginia, or more probably shortly
after his return to England, he wrote a brief and bungling narration of
his experiences in the colony, and a description of Indian life. The
MS. was not printed in his time, but mislaid or forgotten. By a strange
series of chances it turned up in our day, and was identified and
prepared for the press in 1861. Before the proof was read, the type
was accidentally broken up and the MS. again mislaid. Lost sight of for
several years, it was recovered and a small number of copies of it were
printed at London in 1872, edited by Mr. James F. Hunnewell.

Spelman's narration would be very important if we could trust it. He
appeared to have set down what he saw, and his story has a certain
simplicity that gains for it some credit. But he was a reckless boy,
unaccustomed to weigh evidence, and quite likely to write as facts the
rumors that he heard. He took very readily to the ways of Indian
life. Some years after, Spelman returned to Virginia with the title
of Captain, and in 1617 we find this reference to him in the “General
Historie”: “Here, as at many other times, we are beholden to Capt.
Henry Spilman, an interpreter, a gentleman that lived long time in this
country, and sometimes a prisoner among the Salvages, and done much good
service though but badly rewarded.” Smith would probably not have left
this on record had he been aware of the contents of the MS. that Spelman
had left for after-times.

Spelman begins his Relation, from which I shall quote substantially,
without following the spelling or noting all the interlineations, with
the reason for his emigration, which was, “being in displeasure of my
friends, and desirous to see other countries.” After a brief account of
the voyage and the joyful arrival at Jamestown, the Relation continues:

“Having here unloaded our goods and bestowed some senight or fortnight
in viewing the country, I was carried by Capt. Smith, our President, to
the Falls, to the little Powhatan, where, unknown to me, he sold me to
him for a town called Powhatan; and, leaving me with him, the little
Powhatan, he made known to Capt. West how he had bought a town for them
to dwell in. Whereupon Capt. West, growing angry because he had bestowed
cost to begin a town in another place, Capt. Smith desiring that
Capt. West would come and settle himself there, but Capt. West, having
bestowed cost to begin a town in another place, misliked it, and
unkindness thereupon arising between them, Capt. Smith at that time
replied little, but afterward combined with Powhatan to kill Capt. West,
which plot took but small effect, for in the meantime Capt. Smith was
apprehended and sent aboard for England.”

That this roving boy was “thrown in” as a makeweight in the trade for
the town is not impossible; but that Smith combined with Powhatan to
kill Captain West is doubtless West's perversion of the offer of the
Indians to fight on Smith's side against him.

According to Spelman's Relation, he stayed only seven or eight days
with the little Powhatan, when he got leave to go to Jamestown, being
desirous to see the English and to fetch the small articles that
belonged to him. The Indian King agreed to wait for him at that place,
but he stayed too long, and on his return the little Powhatan had
departed, and Spelman went back to Jamestown. Shortly after, the great
Powhatan sent Thomas Savage with a present of venison to President
Percy. Savage was loath to return alone, and Spelman was appointed to
go with him, which he did willingly, as victuals were scarce in camp. He
carried some copper and a hatchet, which he presented to Powhatan, and
that Emperor treated him and his comrade very kindly, seating them at
his own mess-table. After some three weeks of this life, Powhatan sent
this guileless youth down to decoy the English into his hands, promising
to freight a 