ship with corn if they would visit him. Spelman took the
message and brought back the English reply, whereupon Powhatan laid the
plot which resulted in the killing of Captain Ratcliffe and thirty-eight
men, only two of his company escaping to Jamestown. Spelman gives
two versions of this incident. During the massacre Spelman says that
Powhatan sent him and Savage to a town some sixteen miles away. Smith's
“General Historie” says that on this occasion “Pocahuntas saved a boy
named Henry Spilman that lived many years afterward, by her means,
among the Patawomekes.” Spelman says not a word about Pocahuntas. On
the contrary, he describes the visit of the King of the Patawomekes
to Powhatan; says that the King took a fancy to him; that he and Dutch
Samuel, fearing for their lives, escaped from Powhatan's town; were
pursued; that Samuel was killed, and that Spelman, after dodging about
in the forest, found his way to the Potomac, where he lived with this
good King Patomecke at a place called Pasptanzie for more than a year.
Here he seems to have passed his time agreeably, for although he had
occasional fights with the squaws of Patomecke, the King was always his
friend, and so much was he attached to the boy that he would not give
him up to Captain Argall without some copper in exchange.

When Smith returned wounded to Jamestown, he was physically in no
condition to face the situation. With no medical attendance, his
death was not improbable. He had no strength to enforce discipline
nor organize expeditions for supplies; besides, he was acting under a
commission whose virtue had expired, and the mutinous spirits rebelled
against his authority. Ratcliffe, Archer, and the others who were
awaiting trial conspired against him, and Smith says he would have been
murdered in his bed if the murderer's heart had not failed him when he
went to fire his pistol at the defenseless sick man. However, Smith was
forced to yield to circumstances. No sooner had he given out that he
would depart for England than they persuaded Mr. Percy to stay and act
as President, and all eyes were turned in expectation of favor upon the
new commanders. Smith being thus divested of authority, the most of the
colony turned against him; many preferred charges, and began to collect
testimony. “The ships were detained three weeks to get up proofs of his
ill-conduct”--“time and charges,” says Smith, dryly, “that might much
better have been spent.”

It must have enraged the doughty Captain, lying thus helpless, to see
his enemies triumph, the most factious of the disturbers in the colony
in charge of affairs, and become his accusers. Even at this distance we
can read the account with little patience, and should have none at all
if the account were not edited by Smith himself. His revenge was in his
good fortune in setting his own story afloat in the current of history.
The first narrative of these events, published by Smith in his Oxford
tract of 1612, was considerably remodeled and changed in his “General
Historie” of 1624. As we have said before, he had a progressive memory,
and his opponents ought to be thankful that the pungent Captain did not
live to work the story over a third time.

It is no doubt true, however, that but for the accident to our hero, he
would have continued to rule till the arrival of Gates and Somers with
the new commissions; as he himself says, “but had that unhappy blast not
happened, he would quickly have qualified the heat of those humors and
factions, had the ships but once left them and us to our fortunes; and
have made that provision from among the salvages, as we neither feared
Spaniard, Salvage, nor famine: nor would have left Virginia nor our
lawful authority, but at as dear a price as we had bought it, and paid
for it.”

He doubtless would have fought it out against all comers; and who
shall say that he does not merit the glowing eulogy on himself which he
inserts in his General History? “What shall I say but this, we left him,
that in all his proceedings made justice his first guide, and experience
his second, ever hating baseness, sloth, pride, and indignity, more than
any dangers; that upon no danger would send them where he would not lead
them himself; that would never see us want what he either had or could
by any means get us; that would rather want than