cy retired from the governorship.

The town was empty and unfurnished, and seemed like the ruin of some
ancient fortification rather than the habitation of living men. The
palisades were down; the ports open; the gates unhinged; the church
ruined and unfrequented; the houses empty, torn to pieces or burnt;
the people not able to step into the woods to gather fire-wood; and the
Indians killing as fast without as famine and pestilence within.
William Strachey was among the new-comers, and this is the story that he
despatched as Lord Delaware's report to England in July. On taking stock
of provisions there was found only scant rations for sixteen days, and
Gates and Somers determined to abandon the plantation, and, taking all
on board their own ships, to make their way to Newfoundland, in the hope
of falling in with English vessels. Accordingly, on the 7th of June they
got on board and dropped down the James.

Meantime the news of the disasters to the colony, and the supposed loss
of the Sea Venture, had created a great excitement in London, and a
panic and stoppage of subscriptions in the company. Lord Delaware, a man
of the highest reputation for courage and principle, determined to go
himself, as Captain-General, to Virginia, in the hope of saving the
fortunes of the colony. With three ships and one hundred and fifty
persons, mostly artificers, he embarked on the 1st of April, 1610, and
reached the Chesapeake Bay on the 5th of June, just in time to meet the
forlorn company of Gates and Somers putting out to sea.

They turned back and ascended to Jamestown, when landing on Sunday, the
10th, after a sermon by Mr. Buck, the commission of Lord Delaware was
read, and Gates turned over his authority to the new Governor. He swore
in as Council, Sir Thomas Gates, Lieutenant-General; Sir George Somers,
Admiral; Captain George Percy; Sir Ferdinando Wenman, Marshal; Captain
Christopher Newport, and William Strachey, Esq., Secretary and Recorder.

On the 19th of June the brave old sailor, Sir George Somers, volunteered
to return to the Bermudas in his pinnace to procure hogs and other
supplies for the colony. He was accompanied by Captain Argall in the
ship Discovery. After a rough voyage this noble old knight reached the
Bermudas. But his strength was not equal to the memorable courage of his
mind. At a place called Saint George he died, and his men, confounded at
the death of him who was the life of them all, embalmed his body and
set sail for England. Captain Argall, after parting with his consort,
without reaching the Bermudas, and much beating about the coast, was
compelled to return to Jamestown.

Captain Gates was sent to England with despatches and to procure more
settlers and more supplies. Lord Delaware remained with the colony less
than a year; his health failing, he went in pursuit of it, in March,
1611, to the West Indies. In June of that year Gates sailed again, with
six vessels, three hundred men, one hundred cows, besides other cattle,
and provisions of all sorts. With him went his wife, who died on the
passage, and his daughters. His expedition reached the James in August.
The colony now numbered seven hundred persons. Gates seated himself at
Hampton, a “delicate and necessary site for a city.”

Percy commanded at Jamestown, and Sir Thomas Dale went up the river to
lay the foundations of Henrico.

We have no occasion to follow further the fortunes of the Virginia
colony, except to relate the story of Pocahontas under her different
names of Amonate, Matoaka, Mrs. Rolfe, and Lady Rebecca.






XV. NEW ENGLAND ADVENTURES

Captain John Smith returned to England in the autumn of 1609, wounded
in body and loaded with accusations of misconduct, concocted by his
factious companions in Virginia. There is no record that these charges
were ever considered by the London Company. Indeed, we cannot find
that the company in those days ever took any action on the charges made
against any of its servants in Virginia. Men came home in disgrace and
appeared to receive neither vindication nor condemnation. Some sunk into
private life, and others more pushing and brazen, like Ratcliffe, the
enemy of Smith, got employment again after a time. The affairs of the
company seem to have been conducted with little order or justice.

Whatever may have been the j