omises, and
excuses, but no performance of anything to any purpose. In the interim,
many particular ships went thither, and finding my relations true, and
that I had not taken that I brought home from the French men, as had
been reported: yet further for my pains to discredit me, and my calling
it New England, they obscured it, and shadowed it, with the title of
Canada, till at my humble suit, it pleased our most Royal King Charles,
whom God long keep, bless and preserve, then Prince of Wales, to confirm
it with my map and book, by the title of New England; the gain thence
returning did make the fame thereof so increase that thirty, forty or
fifty sail went yearly only to trade and fish; but nothing would be done
for a plantation, till about some hundred of your Brownists of England,
Amsterdam and Leyden went to New Plimouth, whose humorous ignorances,
caused them for more than a year, to endure a wonderful deal of misery,
with an infinite patience; saying my books and maps were much better
cheap to teach them than myself: many others have used the like
good husbandry that have payed soundly in trying their self-willed
conclusions; but those in time doing well, diverse others have in small
handfulls undertaken to go there, to be several Lords and Kings of
themselves, but most vanished to nothing.”





XVII. WRITINGS-LATER YEARS

If Smith had not been an author, his exploits would have occupied
a small space in the literature of his times. But by his unwearied
narrations he impressed his image in gigantic features on our plastic
continent. If he had been silent, he would have had something less
than justice; as it is, he has been permitted to greatly exaggerate his
relations to the New World. It is only by noting the comparative silence
of his contemporaries and by winnowing his own statements that we can
appreciate his true position.

For twenty years he was a voluminous writer, working off his superfluous
energy in setting forth his adventures in new forms. Most of his
writings are repetitions and recastings of the old material, with such
reflections as occur to him from time to time. He seldom writes a book,
or a tract, without beginning it or working into it a resume of his
life. The only exception to this is his “Sea Grammar.” In 1626 he
published “An Accidence or the Pathway to Experience, necessary to all
Young Seamen,” and in 1627 “A Sea Grammar, with the plain Exposition of
Smith's Accidence for Young Seamen, enlarged.” This is a technical work,
and strictly confined to the building, rigging, and managing of a ship.
He was also engaged at the time of his death upon a “History of the
Sea,” which never saw the light. He was evidently fond of the sea, and
we may say the title of Admiral came naturally to him, since he used
it in the title-page to his “Description of New England,” published in
1616, although it was not till 1617 that the commissioners at Plymouth
agreed to bestow upon him the title of “Admiral of that country.”

In 1630 he published “The True Travels, Adventures and Observations of
Captain John Smith, in Europe, Asia, Affrica and America, from 1593 to
1629. Together with a Continuation of his General History of Virginia,
Summer Isles, New England, and their proceedings since 1624 to this
present 1629: as also of the new Plantations of the great River of the
Amazons, the Isles of St. Christopher, Mevis and Barbadoes in the West
Indies.” In the dedication to William, Earl of Pembroke, and Robert,
Earl of Lindsay, he says it was written at the request of Sir Robert
Cotton, the learned antiquarian, and he the more willingly satisfies
this noble desire because, as he says, “they have acted my fatal
tragedies on the stage, and racked my relations at their pleasure. To
prevent, therefore, all future misprisions, I have compiled this true
discourse. Envy hath taxed me to have writ too much, and done too
little; but that such should know how little, I esteem them, I have
writ this more for the satisfaction of my friends, and all generous
and well-disposed readers: To speak only of myself were intolerable
ingratitude: because, having had many co-partners with me, I cannot
make a Monument for myself, and leave them unburied in the fields, whose
lives begot me the title of Soldier, for as they were companions with me
in my dangers, so 