hter of Virginia, Hath
been in womb of tavern.

The last work of our author was published in 1631, the year of his
death. Its full title very well describes the contents: “Advertisements
for the Unexperienced Planters of New England, or anywhere. Or, the
Pathway to Experience to erect a Plantation. With the yearly proceedings
of this country in fishing and planting since the year 1614 to the
year 1630, and their present estate. Also, how to prevent the greatest
inconvenience by their proceedings in Virginia, and other plantations by
approved examples. With the countries armes, a description of the coast,
harbours, habitations, landmarks, latitude and longitude: with the map
allowed by our Royall King Charles.”

Smith had become a trifle cynical in regard to the newsmongers of the
day, and quaintly remarks in his address to the reader: “Apelles by the
proportion of a foot could make the whole proportion of a man: were
he now living, he might go to school, for now thousands can by opinion
proportion kingdoms, cities and lordships that never durst adventure to
see them. Malignancy I expect from these, have lived 10 or 12 years
in those actions, and return as wise as they went, claiming time and
experience for their tutor that can neither shift Sun nor moon, nor say
their compass, yet will tell you of more than all the world betwixt the
Exchange, Paul's and Westminster.... and tell as well what all England
is by seeing but Mitford Haven as what Apelles was by the picture of his
great toe.”

This is one of Smith's most characteristic productions. Its material is
ill-arranged, and much of it is obscurely written; it runs backward
and forward along his life, refers constantly to his former works and
repeats them, complains of the want of appreciation of his services, and
makes himself the centre of all the colonizing exploits of the age. Yet
it is interspersed with strokes of humor and observations full of good
sense.

It opens with the airy remark: “The wars in Europe, Asia and Africa,
taught me how to subdue the wild savages in Virginia and New England.”
 He never did subdue the wild savages in New England, and he never was in
any war in Africa, nor in Asia, unless we call his piratical cruising in
the Mediterranean “wars in Asia.”

As a Church of England man, Smith is not well pleased with the
occupation of New England by the Puritans, Brownists, and such “factious
humorists” as settled at New Plymouth, although he acknowledges the
wonderful patience with which, in their ignorance and willfulness, they
have endured losses and extremities; but he hopes better things of
the gentlemen who went in 1629 to supply Endicott at Salem, and were
followed the next year by Winthrop. All these adventurers have, he says,
made use of his “aged endeavors.” It seems presumptuous in them to try
to get on with his maps and descriptions and without him. They probably
had never heard, except in the title-pages of his works, that he was
“Admiral of New England.”

Even as late as this time many supposed New England to be an island, but
Smith again asserts, what he had always maintained--that it was a part
of the continent. The expedition of Winthrop was scattered by a storm,
and reached Salem with the loss of threescore dead and many sick,
to find as many of the colony dead, and all disconsolate. Of the
discouraged among them who returned to England Smith says: “Some could
not endure the name of a bishop, others not the sight of a cross or
surplice, others by no means the book of common prayer. This absolute
crew, only of the Elect, holding all (but such as themselves) reprobates
and castaways, now made more haste to return to Babel, as they termed
England, than stay to enjoy the land they called Canaan.” Somewhat they
must say to excuse themselves. Therefore, “some say they could see no
timbers of ten foot diameter, some the country is all wood; others they
drained all the springs and ponds dry, yet like to famish for want of
fresh water; some of the danger of the ratell-snake.” To compel all
the Indians to furnish them corn without using them cruelly they say
is impossible. Yet this “impossible,” Smith says, he accomplished in
Virginia, and offers to undertake in New England, with one hundred and
fifty men, to get corn, fortify the country, and “discover them more
land 