ier
named Juan Ortiz. When De Soto marched into the same country in 1539 he
encountered this soldier, who had been held in captivity by the Indians
and had learned their language. The story that Ortiz told was this:
He was taken prisoner by the chief Ucita, bound hand and foot, and
stretched upon a scaffold to be roasted, when, just as the flames were
seizing him, a daughter of the chief interposed in his behalf, and
upon her prayers Ucita spared the life of the prisoner. Three years
afterward, when there was danger that Ortiz would be sacrificed to
appease the devil, the princess came to him, warned him of his danger,
and led him secretly and alone in the night to the camp of a chieftain
who protected him.

This narrative was in print before Smith wrote, and as he was fond
of such adventures he may have read it. The incidents are curiously
parallel. And all the comment needed upon it is that Smith seems to have
been peculiarly subject to such coincidences.

Our author's selection of a coat of arms, the distinguishing feature of
which was “three Turks' heads,” showed little more originality. It was
a common device before his day: on many coats of arms of the Middle
Ages and later appear “three Saracens' heads,” or “three Moors'
heads”--probably most of them had their origin in the Crusades. Smith's
patent to use this charge, which he produced from Sigismund, was dated
1603, but the certificate appended to it by the Garter King at Arms,
certifying that it was recorded in the register and office of the
heralds, is dated 1625. Whether Smith used it before this latter date we
are not told. We do not know why he had not as good right to assume it
as anybody.

[Burke's “Encyclopedia of Heraldry” gives it as granted to Capt. John
Smith, of the Smiths of Cruffley, Co. Lancaster, in 1629, and describes
it: “Vert, a chev. gu. betw. three Turks' heads couped ppr. turbaned or.
Crest-an Ostrich or, holding in the mouth a horseshoe or.”]




XVIII. DEATH AND CHARACTER

Hardship and disappointment made our hero prematurely old, but could
not conquer his indomitable spirit. The disastrous voyage of June, 1615,
when he fell into the hands of the French, is spoken of by the Council
for New England in 1622 as “the ruin of that poor gentleman, Captain
Smith, who was detained prisoner by them, and forced to suffer many
extremities before he got free of his troubles;” but he did not know
that he was ruined, and did not for a moment relax his efforts
to promote colonization and obtain a command, nor relinquish his
superintendence of the Western Continent.

His last days were evidently passed in a struggle for existence, which
was not so bitter to him as it might have been to another man, for he
was sustained by ever-elating “great expectations.” That he was pinched
for means of living, there is no doubt. In 1623 he issued a prospectus
of his “General Historie,” in which he said: “These observations are all
I have for the expenses of a thousand pounds and the loss of eighteen
years' time, besides all the travels, dangers, miseries and incumbrances
for my countries good, I have endured gratis:... this is composed in
less than eighty sheets, besides the three maps, which will stand me
near in a hundred pounds, which sum I cannot disburse: nor shall the
stationers have the copy for nothing. I therefore, humbly entreat your
Honour, either to adventure, or give me what you please towards the
impression, and I will be both accountable and thankful.”

He had come before he was fifty to regard himself as an old man, and
to speak of his “aged endeavors.” Where and how he lived in his later
years, and with what surroundings and under what circumstances he
died, there is no record. That he had no settled home, and was in mean
lodgings at the last, may be reasonably inferred. There is a manuscript
note on the fly-leaf of one of the original editions of “The Map of
Virginia....” (Oxford, 1612), in ancient chirography, but which from its
reference to Fuller could not have been written until more than thirty
years after Smith's death. It says: “When he was old he lived in London
poor but kept up his spirits with the commemoration of his former
actions and bravery. He was buried in St. Sepulcher's Church, as Fuller
tells us, who has given us a line of his Ranting Epitaph.”

That 