lot for me but Smith's Isles, which
are an array of barren rocks, the most overgrowne with shrubs and sharpe
whins you can hardly passe them: without either grasse or wood but three
or foure short shrubby old cedars.”

Nearly all of Smith's biographers and the historians of Virginia have,
with great respect, woven his romances about his career into their
narratives, imparting to their paraphrases of his story such
an elevation as his own opinion of himself seemed to demand. Of
contemporary estimate of him there is little to quote except the
panegyrics in verse he has preserved for us, and the inference from his
own writings that he was the object of calumny and detraction. Enemies
he had in plenty, but there are no records left of their opinion of his
character. The nearest biographical notice of him in point of time is
found in the “History of the Worthies of England,” by Thomas Fuller,
D.D., London, 1662.

Old Fuller's schoolmaster was Master Arthur Smith, a kinsman of John,
who told him that John was born in Lincolnshire, and it is probable that
Fuller received from his teacher some impression about the adventurer.

Of his “strange performances” in Hungary, Fuller says: “The scene
whereof is laid at such a distance that they are cheaper credited than
confuted.”

“From the Turks in Europe he passed to the pagans in America, where
towards the latter end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth [it was in the
reign of James] such his perils, preservations, dangers, deliverances,
they seem to most men above belief, to some beyond truth. Yet have we
two witnesses to attest them, the prose and the pictures, both in his
own book; and it soundeth much to the diminution of his deeds that he
alone is the herald to publish and proclaim them.”

“Surely such reports from strangers carry the greater reputation.
However, moderate men must allow Captain Smith to have been very
instrumental in settling the plantation in Virginia, whereof he was
governor, as also Admiral of New England.”

“He led his old age in London, where his having a prince's mind
imprisoned in a poor man's purse, rendered him to the contempt of such
as were not ingenuous. Yet he efforted his spirits with the remembrance
and relation of what formerly he had been, and what he had done.”

Of the “ranting epitaph,” quoted above, Fuller says: “The orthography,
poetry, history and divinity in this epitaph are much alike.”

Without taking Captain John Smith at his own estimate of himself, he
was a peculiar character even for the times in which he lived. He shared
with his contemporaries the restless spirit of roving and adventure
which resulted from the invention of the mariner's compass and the
discovery of the New World; but he was neither so sordid nor so
rapacious as many of them, for his boyhood reading of romances had
evidently fired him with the conceits of the past chivalric period. This
imported into his conduct something inflated and something elevated.
And, besides, with all his enormous conceit, he had a stratum of
practical good sense, a shrewd wit, and the salt of humor.

If Shakespeare had known him, as he might have done, he would have had
a character ready to his hand that would have added one of the most
amusing and interesting portraits to his gallery. He faintly suggests
a moral Falstaff, if we can imagine a Falstaff without vices. As a
narrator he has the swagger of a Captain Dalghetty, but his actions
are marked by honesty and sincerity. He appears to have had none of the
small vices of the gallants of his time. His chivalric attitude toward
certain ladies who appear in his adventures, must have been sufficiently
amusing to his associates. There is about his virtue a certain antique
flavor which must have seemed strange to the adventurers and court
hangers-on in London. Not improbably his assumptions were offensive
to the ungodly, and his ingenuous boastings made him the object of
amusement to the skeptics. Their ridicule would naturally appear to him
to arise from envy. We read between the lines of his own eulogies of
himself, that there was a widespread skepticism about his greatness and
his achievements, which he attributed to jealousy. Perhaps his obtrusive
virtues made him enemies, and his rectitude was a standing offense to
his associates.

It is certain he got on well wit