h scarcely anybody with whom he was
thrown in his enterprises. He was of common origin, and always carried
with him the need of assertion in an insecure position. He appears to us
always self-conscious and ill at ease with gentlemen born. The captains
of his own station resented his assumptions of superiority, and while
he did not try to win them by an affectation of comradeship, he probably
repelled those of better breeding by a swaggering manner. No doubt his
want of advancement was partly due to want of influence, which better
birth would have given him; but the plain truth is that he had a talent
for making himself disagreeable to his associates. Unfortunately he
never engaged in any enterprise with any one on earth who was so capable
of conducting it as himself, and this fact he always made plain to his
comrades. Skill he had in managing savages, but with his equals among
whites he lacked tact, and knew not the secret of having his own way
without seeming to have it. He was insubordinate, impatient of any
authority over him, and unwilling to submit to discipline he did not
himself impose.

Yet it must be said that he was less self-seeking than those who were
with him in Virginia, making glory his aim rather than gain always;
that he had a superior conception of what a colony should be, and how
it should establish itself, and that his judgment of what was best was
nearly always vindicated by the event. He was not the founder of the
Virginia colony, its final success was not due to him, but it was owing
almost entirely to his pluck and energy that it held on and maintained
an existence during the two years and a half that he was with it at
Jamestown. And to effect this mere holding on, with the vagabond
crew that composed most of the colony, and with the extravagant and
unintelligent expectations of the London Company, was a feat showing
decided ability. He had the qualities fitting him to be an explorer
and the leader of an expedition. He does not appear to have had the
character necessary to impress his authority on a community. He was
quarrelsome, irascible, and quick to fancy that his full value was not
admitted. He shines most upon such small expeditions as the exploration
of the Chesapeake; then his energy, self-confidence, shrewdness,
inventiveness, had free play, and his pluck and perseverance are
recognized as of the true heroic substance.

Smith, as we have seen, estimated at their full insignificance such
flummeries as the coronation of Powhatan, and the foolishness of taxing
the energies of the colony to explore the country for gold and chase the
phantom of the South Sea. In his discernment and in his conceptions of
what is now called “political economy” he was in advance of his age.
He was an advocate of “free trade” before the term was invented. In his
advice given to the New England plantation in his “Advertisements” he
says:

“Now as his Majesty has made you custome-free for seven yeares, have
a care that all your countrymen shall come to trade with you, be not
troubled with pilotage, boyage, ancorage, wharfage, custome, or any such
tricks as hath been lately used in most of our plantations, where they
would be Kings before their folly; to the discouragement of many, and a
scorne to them of understanding, for Dutch, French, Biskin, or any will
as yet use freely the Coast without controule, and why not English as
well as they? Therefore use all commers with that respect, courtesie,
and liberty is fitting, which will in a short time much increase your
trade and shipping to fetch it from you, for as yet it were not good to
adventure any more abroad with factors till you bee better provided; now
there is nothing more enricheth a Common-wealth than much trade, nor
no meanes better to increase than small custome, as Holland, Genua,
Ligorne, as divers other places can well tell you, and doth most beggar
those places where they take most custome, as Turkie, the Archipelegan
Iles, Cicilia, the Spanish ports, but that their officers will connive
to enrich themselves, though undo the state.”

It may perhaps be admitted that he knew better than the London or the
Plymouth company what ought to be done in the New World, but it is
absurd to suppose that his success or his ability forfeited him the
confidence of both companies, and shut him out o